# java-data-types-string-apis-java-se-11

 Hi and welcome to the practice project, working with java data types and string APIs. In this project we're going to cover a number of topics related to primitive types and variables while most courses on java provide generalized information. This course as well as others in the java. S E certification path is specifically designed to help you with the exam in this course will cover several topics, including a deep dive into primitive types and the types of variables, how to use all the java operators as well as some of the math APIs Working with primitive rappers such as integer and double. A thorough review of variable naming and other rules including scope and finally we'll wrap up with coverage of strings and dates with a focus on those methods most likely to be found in the exam. It's expected that you already know the basics about programming in java and that you are looking for guidance on the java. S. C. Developer certification exam. You should download the source code and follow. You can view the code using any text editor. Let's get started. In this first module, we're going to talk about the fields versus local variables and primitive versus references We'll discuss eight primitive data types in detail. Then we'll talk about the narrowing and widening rules underscores in numbers, different number systems and scientific notation. We'll wrap up with a review. There are eight primitive types in Java bullion, bite short. Ent long and double float and char. These types vary in the kind of numbers and size of values that they can contain. Some primitives have a small range such as the bullion, while others can accommodate astronomically large numbers. Like the long six of these primitives, the byte short and long and char are designed to be used with whole or integral numbers, double and float are rational or decimal point types that allow for fractions. In the next video, I'll talk about fields versus local variables and primitives versus reference types.
